Crack dot Com is hereby releasing the source code to Abuse to the
public domain.

Ownership:

  The following are statements of Crack dot Com's ownership.  These
  items are NOT being submitted to the public domain.

    Crack dot Com retains ownership of the Abuse trademark.
    Crack dot Com retains ownership of the Crack dot Com trademark.
    Crack dot Com retains ownership of the Abuse "retail" data set.
    Crack dot Com retains ownership of the Abuse "registered" data set.

  The "retail" and "registered" data sets are defined as the levels,
  sound effects, music, artwork and other data which are NOT common to the
  "shareware" release of the game.

Licenses and Third Party Owners:

  Crack licensed the DOS Abuse rights to Electronic Arts and the Mac Abuse
  rights to Bungie.  Crack is therefore NOT releasing the full data set to
  the public domain to protect EA's and Bungie's investments in the product.

  Sound effects found in the shareware release of Abuse are the copyright of
  Bobby Prince and are not being submitted to the public domain.

Disclaimer of Waranty:

  As with most public domain software, no warranty is made or implied
  by Crack dot Com or Jonathan Clark.

Examples of What you CAN Do:

  Make another game and sell it commercially using the Abuse source code.
  Use pieces of the source code or shareware data (excluding the WAV's-
    you must speak to Bobby Prince) however you see fit.
  Learn how to make a better game.
  Port Abuse to any system you like.

A note from Jonathan Clark:

  I'm busy coding Golgotha so I don't have time to answer many questions.
  If you e-mail me, I'll read it (unless it's really long), but I may
  not answer.  If you are making a game with the code, I would like to
  hear about that sort of thing.

A note from Dave Taylor:

  I didn't write a line of the Abuse source code, but I'm proud to have
  footed the bill.  If any adventurous coders are interested, I would
  love to someday see a version which runs a lot faster, draws interpolated
  frames between the 15 Hz (i believe) updates, and runs under Win32.  I
  believe in the released versions, we didn't include a line of assembly,
  and we've identified several areas that can be optimized.

  Also enclosed is the Mac Abuse source tree.  We decided to split
  the Mac version from the main source tree.  The Mac version features
  several updates to the Abuse engine and is designed primarily for a
  640x480 resolution.  We do not know if the Mac Abuse source tree
  compiles these days, so it's certainly wiser for the novice to stick
  with the main abuse and imlib directories instead of the macabuse/abuse
  and macabuse/imlib directories.

  Many thanks to Jason Merrill at Cygnus who fitted the Abuse source to
  use configure and fixed several bugs.  The following are exerpts from
  his e-mail to us detailing some of those changes:

    "You'll need to remove abuse/lnx_sdrv and abuse/keydrv before building so
     make doesn't rebuild them in the source directory.

     Some crashes fixed.  Curiously, building the 'opt' target instead of
     'debug' produces a program that doesn't crash in mid-game, though it does
     occasionally say "jfree: bad pointer".  I haven't checked whether this is
     because of optimization or -DNO_CHECK.

     ABUSE_PATH should work now, but it's useless without ABUSE_SAVE_PATH,
     which would be harder to fix.  The 'abuse' script just makes symlinks
     to the installed data files.

     keydrv now works and cleans up after itself.

     Changed SVGA mouse init to be run before vga_init so it only needs to be
     suid root, not run as root.  Use vga_getmousetype() instead of checking
     MOUSE_TYPE.

     The patch uses automake, but stock FSF automake won't work.  I had to
     tweak it to accommodate your source layout.  Avoid rebuilding
     Makefile.in.

     This should work for non-linux UNIX targets as well, but I haven't tested
     it yet.

     Fixes another couple of crashes and fixes support for sparc-sun-solaris2,
     mips-sgi-irix5, powerpc-ibm-aix4.1, and probably others I haven't tried.
     I haven't tested the AIX sound driver."


Have fun,

  Jonathan Clark                 Dave Taylor
  Lead Programmer/Founder        President/Founder
  Crack dot Com                  Crack dot Com

